---
title: 'Concentration'
date: '2012-01-02'
---

I hope everyone is well rested after the holidays. This is the first time in a long time, I can honestly say that I feel that way. I did something I haven't given myself the chance to do in five years, to enjoy the art of creation.I spent most of the week leading up to Christmas in the 9x10 space that is my kitchen. On the Tuesday before Christmas, I cooked for nearly 10 hours. Eight of those delightful hours were devoted to making various treats for friends and family and two of those hours were devoted to making a large south indian meal for my husband who on occasion is known to ask for such a thing.It was perhaps the most exhilerating day I've had in a long time. I had all the recipes in my head, the preheat temperatures, the ingredients, the cooling requirements. After a few days of thinking about the recipes and how I would execute this plan, I went to work. I started with the cookie doughs I knew had to cool in the fridge, then onto some items that could be popped in the oven, while I prepped others. Within a few hours, I had dozens of chocolate chip, peanut butter blossom and sugar cookies on every surface of my apartment. There was also a tub of fresh homemade granola and a few trays of magic layer bars - just minutes of effort but tons of enjoyment for all who partake, and a childhood favorite of mine. And of course, a Christmas classic, peppermint bark. As I moved through each of the recipes and techniques, I felt like I was dancing.Was it simply the freedom of not having work the next day? Or the excitement of a new project or the novelty of baking on a Tuesday? What motivates one to have this type of limitless concentration? Why is this possible with some projects and not others?As I embark on my 2012 journey... a list of projects and goals that I hope to accomplish in the next few months, I am also excited to consider why and how we are motivated to learn and how that can be translated into the classroom.More to come on this topic.